For more on the Ukraine and Russian conflict,
let's bring in Timothy Frye.
He's the Marshall D. Shulman Professor
of Post-Soviet Politics at Columbia University.
Timothy is also the author of Weak Strongman--
The Limits of Power in Putin's Russia.
Timothy, I want to play some of what President Biden said today
about the crisis in Ukraine and then come back to you.
The Russian Defense Minister reported today
that some military units are leaving their positions
near Ukraine.
That would be good, but we have not yet verified that.
Indeed, our analysts indicate that they remain very much
in a threatening position.
Not yet verified.
Timothy, first of all, thank you for joining us.
Now, tell me what would it mean if, in fact, Russia
would begin a troop withdrawal.
Well, the signals coming from Moscow are quite mixed.
On the one hand, there's been an announcement
that some troops from the South and the East
are withdrawing back to base that has not been verified.
At the same time, Russia still maintains the capacity
to inflict great military damage on Ukraine
both on its northern flank and on its Eastern flank regardless
of whether or not those troops have been removed.
So it's a very good sign.
And it's also a good sign that the two sides
continue to talk because each day without fighting
is a good day.
That's right.
I mean, I understand that Russian President Vladimir
Putin met with Germany's new chancellor, Olaf Scholz,
on Tuesday, today.
What is potentially at stake between these two countries
if Ukraine is attacked?
As you said, any day that there is no fighting is a good day.
But of course, every day we kind of feel that pressure.
We're not the only country.
What would it mean to Russia-German relations?
And how is that different from relations
between Russia and the US?
So it was important that Olaf Scholz, the chancellor
of Germany, was in Moscow today meeting with President Putin
to show that diplomacy continues.
On the German side, the chancellor
said that he would continue to pressure Ukraine in order
to reach a compromise agreement with Russia known as Minsk II.
This is an agreement that's not very favorable to Ukraine.
But it is the only offer that's on the table and something
that Moscow has pushed.
At the same time, he also put some pressure
on President Putin.
Earlier in the day, the Russian parliament
had voted to recognize the two regions in Ukraine
where much of the fighting has taken place.
And he warned President Putin that should that effort
go forward that this would end any negotiations over the peace
agreement in Ukraine.
So again, both sides are trying to bargain.
And part of the bargain is the public debate
that is taking place as each side tries
to sway public opinion in Ukraine and Russia, Europe,
and the United States.
And when you say each side, we're thinking US.
We're thinking Germany.
But let's focus on NATO.
I understand, of course, that Ukraine is not
a member of NATO.
Neither will it be according to pretty much every expert
out there and President Biden and NATO members.
Now, how would--
I understand that.
However, Ukraine is getting a lot of help from NATO members.
What would it look like if there was an intervention by Russia
into Ukraine?
What kind of help might NATO members provide?
Well, it would depend a lot on the nature of the expansion
of Russian military in Ukraine.
Should it be a ground war with tanks rolling across territory,
aerial strikes, you would see large numbers of refugees that
would need to be accommodated.
NATO would have to increase its military support for Ukraine
to try to claw back territory.
Hopefully, we don't get to that stage.
Regardless of the scale of an invasion,
we would likely see sanctions against Russia
to try to increase the cost of any further expansion
of military activity.
One thing to be concerned about, of course,
is that NATO countries are also bordering with Ukraine.
And conflicts like this are often
difficult to contain as weapons are going back and forth
and people are going back and forth between countries.
So one thing that NATO really needs to be concerned about
is any potential spillover of fighting
in Ukraine that then crosses border onto a NATO country.
And that would cause a real political, economic,
and military crisis.
So better contain-- better diplomacy,
not get to any Russian aggression.
Timothy Frye, thank you so much for joining us tonight.
It was my pleasure.
Thank you.